# Crowdfunding_ETL




Table of Contents
=================

  * [Background](#background)
  * [Objective](#objective)
  * [Method](#method)
  * [Part 1: Create Category and Subcategory DataFrames](#part-1-create-category-and-subcategory-dataframes)
  * [Part 2: Create Campaign DataFrame](#part-2-create-campaign-dataframe)
  * [Part 3: Create Contacts DataFrame](#part-3-create-contacts-dataframe)
  * [Part 4: Create Crowdfunding DataFrame](#part-4-create-crowdfunding-dataframe)
  * [References](#references)
  
  
  
## Background
  

This ETL mini project practices building an ETL pipeline using Python, Pandas and a Python dictionary to extract and transform the data. Once the data has been transformed, four CSV files were created and then used to create an ERD and table schema. The final CSV file data will be uploaded into a Postgres database. 
  
  

## Objective
  

There are four technical products with the submission of the following deliverables:

* **Deliverable 1:** A Jupyter notebook containing code that extracts and transforms data from a crowdfunding.xlsx and contacts.xlsx, creates DataFrames and four CSV files.

* **Deliverable 2:** An ERD to create a database schema within Postgres.



## Method


For Part 1-2: Extract the crowdfunding data from the crowdfunding.xlsx file using Pandas to read the excel file. Convert into a DataFrame and obtain a brief summary. 

For Part 3: Extract the contacts data from the contacts.xlsx file using Pandas to read the excel file. Convert into a DataFrame. 

For Part 4: Sketch ERD of tables from CSV files. Create database schema as Postgres file named `crowdfunding_db_schema.sql` and create new Postgres database named `crowdfunding_db`.



## Part 1: Create Category and Subcategory DataFrames


Use ETL_Mini_Project_AKhan_TMardosas.ipynb for this section.

**Create a Category DataFrame that has the following columns:**
- A "category_id" column that is numbered sequentially from 1 to the length of the number of unique categories.
- A "category" column that has only the categories.

Export the DataFrame as a `category.csv` CSV file. This CSV file is found within the 'Files' folder. 


**Create a SubCategory DataFrame that has the following columns:**
- A "subcategory_id" column that is numbered sequentially from 1 to the length of the number of unique subcategories.
- A "subcategory" column that has only the subcategories. 

Export the DataFrame as a `subcategory.csv` CSV file. This CSV file is found within the 'Files' folder.



## Part 2: Create Campaign DataFrame


Use ETL_Mini_Project_AKhan_TMardosas.ipynb for this section.

**Create a Campaign DataFrame that has the following columns:**
- The "cf_id" column.
- The "contact_id" column.
- The “company_name” column.
- The "blurb" column is renamed as "description."
- The "goal" column.
- The "goal" column is converted to a `float` datatype.
- The "pledged" column is converted to a `float` datatype. 
- The "backers_count" column. 
- The "country" column.
- The "currency" column.
- The "launched_at" column is renamed as "launch_date" and converted to a datetime format. 
- The "deadline" column is renamed as "end_date" and converted to a datetime format.
- The "category_id" with the unique number matching the “category_id” from the category DataFrame. 
- The "subcategory_id" with the unique number matching the “subcategory_id” from the subcategory DataFrame.
- And, create a column that contains the unique four-digit contact ID number from the `contact.xlsx` file.
 
Export the DataFrame as a `campaign.csv` CSV file. This file is found within the 'Files' folder.
    


## Part 3: Create Contacts DataFrame


Use ETL_Mini_Project_AKhan_TMardosas.ipynb for this section.

**Create a Contacts DataFrame that has the following columns:**
- A column named "contact_id"  that contains the unique number of the contact person.
- A column named "first_name" that contains the first name of the contact person.
- A column named "last_name" that contains the first name of the contact person.
- A column named "email" that contains the email address of the contact person

Then export the DataFrame as a `contacts.csv` CSV file. This file is found within the 'Files' folder.



## Part 4: Create Crowdfunding DataFrame


Sketch ERD of tables from CSV files using QuickDBD.

Create database schema as Postgres file named `crowdfunding_db_schema.sql` and create new Postgres database named `crowdfunding_db`.
- Using the database schema, create tables in the correct to handle the foreign keys.
- Verify the table creation by running a SELECT statement for each table.
- Import each CSV file into its corresponding SQL table.
- Verify that each table has the correct data by running a SELECT statement for each.



## References


* Dataset provided by edX UofT Data Analytics, which had been generated by Trilogy Education Services, LLC. 

- - -
